0

Main Window/Output Window
The main output windows allows you to access the main recipe creation screen by clicking the create recipe.
You can also learn more about the program by clicking the about button.
This screen will display the ingredients, directions and nutrient values after you have made your recipe.

1

Main Recipe Entry Window
This window shows the ingredients currently in your recipe.
To add another ingredient click the "Add Food Item" button. This will bring up the ingredient entry window.
To remove an item select it in the list and click the remove item button. Only one item can be removed at once.
When you are finished adding items to your recipe click the calculate nutrients button.

Calculating Nutrients:
A dialog will come up asking if you want to add directions to your recipe click yes and add the directions in the
    window that comes up. When you are done click OK.
Next the program will calculate the nutrient values for your recipe. Please be patient as this can take a few minutes
    for a large recipe.
You will then be asked to name your recipe.
Next a dialog will appear asking if you wish to print your recipe to a file. If you click yes a plain text file will be
    printed to the directory which you have run the program out of called "Recipe.txt"
The name, ingredients and nutrients will now appear on the output window.
The program ignores any nutrients that have a value of 0

2

Ingredient Entry Window
Begin by searching for your ingredient in the search bar.
You can have up to 5 search keywords separated by "," or ", "
The search is not case sensitive.
Example search for 1% Chocolate milk:
milk, chocolate, 1%
If no results appear try changing your keywords to be less specific or split them up with commas

Once your desired food item has been found select it and click "Use Selected Item"
It will now appear in the search bar.
Use the drop-boxes, slider and custom quantity entry box to enter your desired amount of ingredient.
Not all measurements are available for all ingredients.
When you have your desired ingredient and quantity click OK.
You will be taken back to the main recipe window.
You can close this window at any time to cancel.

3

Save/Open recipes:
The recipes can be saved by using the save button. From the main recipe window the recipe can
    be save so that it can be opened and edited later.
Once the nutrients have been calculated the recipes can still be saved, but so can the output
    (the label with the directions). This can be done by clicking the save menu and clicking 
    "Save Output". The output is saved as a plain text file. It can be opened in any text editor on any platform.
